---
title: "StoDIP: Efficient 3D MRF Image Reconstruction with Deep Image Priors and Stochastic Iterations"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-10-23_stodip
excerpt: 'Efficient implementation of a Deep Image Prior (DIP) approach for the processing of 3D-MRF data.'
date: 2022-03-06
venue: 'MLMI 2024'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-73290-4_13'
citation: '<b>Perla Mayo</b>, Matteo Cencini, Ketan Fatania, Carolin M. Pirkl, Marion I. Menzel, Bjoern. H. Menze, Michela Tosetti, and Mohammad Golbabaee, &quot;StoDIP: Efficient 3D MRF Image Reconstruction with Deep Image Priors and Stochastic Iterations.&quot; in <i>In: Xu, X., Cui, Z., Rekik, I., Ouyang, X., Sun, K. (eds) Machine Learning in Medical Imaging. MLMI 2024. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 15242. Springer, Cham.</i>.'
---

[Paper](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-73290-4_13) | [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.02367)

## Abstract
Magnetic Resonance Fingerprinting (MRF) is a time-efficient approach to quantitative 
MRI for multiparametric tissue mapping. The reconstruction of quantitative maps requires 
tailored algorithms for removing aliasing artefacts from the compressed sampled MRF 
acquisitions. Within approaches found in the literature, many focus solely on 
two-dimensional (2D) image reconstruction, neglecting the extension to volumetric (3D) 
scans despite their higher relevance and clinical value. A reason for this is that 
transitioning to 3D imaging without appropriate mitigations presents significant 
challenges, including increased computational cost and storage requirements, and the 
need for large amount of ground-truth (artefact-free) data for training. To address 
these issues, we introduce StoDIP, a new algorithm that extends the ground-truth-free 
Deep Image Prior (DIP) reconstruction to 3D MRF imaging. StoDIP employs memory-efficient 
stochastic updates across the multicoil MRF data, a carefully selected neural network 
architecture, as well as faster nonuniform FFT (NUFFT) transformations. This enables a 
faster convergence compared against a conventional DIP implementation without these features. 
Tested on a dataset of whole-brain scans from healthy volunteers, StoDIP demonstrated superior 
performance over the ground-truth-free reconstruction baselines, both quantitatively and 
qualitatively.


Recommended citation: P. Mayo, M. Cencini, K. Fatania, C. M. Pirkl, M. I. Menzel, B. H. Menze, M. Tosetti, and M. Golbabaee,  
StoDIP: Efficient 3D MRF Image Reconstruction with Deep Image Priors and Stochastic Iterations. 
In: Xu, X., Cui, Z., Rekik, I., Ouyang, X., Sun, K. (eds) Machine Learning in Medical Imaging. 
MLMI 2024. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 15242. Springer, Cham. 
[https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-73290-4_13](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-73290-4_13)