---
title: "Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models for Magnetic Resonance Fingerprinting"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-10-29_mrf_iddpm
excerpt: 'A further step in the exploration of the Cauchy distribution in the field of representation learning.'
date: 2022-10-29
venue: 'eprint arXiv:2410.23318'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23318'
citation: '<b>Perla Mayo</b>, Carolin M. Pirkl, Alin Achim, Bjoern Menze, and Mohammad Golbabaee. &quot;Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models for Magnetic Resonance Fingerprinting&quot; in <i>arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.23318</i>, 2024.'
---

## Abstract
Magnetic Resonance Fingerprinting (MRF) is a time-efficient approach to quantitative MRI, 
enabling the mapping of multiple tissue properties from a single, accelerated scan. However, 
achieving accurate reconstructions remains challenging, particularly in highly accelerated 
and undersampled acquisitions, which are crucial for reducing scan times. While deep learning 
techniques have advanced image reconstruction, the recent introduction of diffusion models 
offers new possibilities for imaging tasks, though their application in the medical field is 
still emerging. Notably, diffusion models have not yet been explored for the MRF problem. In 
this work, we propose for the first time a conditional diffusion probabilistic model for MRF 
image reconstruction. Qualitative and quantitative comparisons on in-vivo brain scan data 
demonstrate that the proposed approach can outperform established deep learning and compressed 
sensing algorithms for MRF reconstruction. Extensive ablation studies also explore strategies 
to improve computational efficiency of our approach.

[Get the paper here!](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23318)

Recommended citation: P. Mayo, C. M. Pirkl. A. Achim, B. Menze, and Mohammad Golbabaee, 
"Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models for Magnetic Resonance Fingerprinting," 
in <i>arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.23318</i>, 2024.